docs/contributing.md, before:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Contributing to Submariner](#contributing-to-submariner)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Reaching out](#reaching-out)
    - [slack](#slack)
    - [Google group](#google-group)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Contributing to Submariner

:+1::tada: First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute to Submariner! :tada::+1:

## Overview

Submariner is a tool built to connect overlay networks of different Kubernetes clusters. It aims to be CNI agnostic.

## How to contribute

To contribute to Submariner:

1. Fork this repository
2. Make your changes in the fork
3. Test your changes by running `make ci e2e status=keep` which deploys [Submariner in a Kind 3 cluster setup](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/blob/master/scripts/kind-e2e/README.md) and runs E2E tests
4. Submit a pull request (PR) to Submariner master branch

Refer [this link](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) on how to submit a PR.

A good PR commit message clearly explains the purpose of a PR and the logic implemented.

## Reaching out
You can reach out to Submariner folks on slack and Google Group.

### slack
Join #submariner slack channel at [Rancher-users workspace](https://rancher-users.slack.com/).

### Google group
Join [Submariner's google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/submariner-dev).

### Weekly Meeting
Join [Submariner's weekly meeting](https://bluejeans.com/3472508766) from 11:00-11:30AM ET ([agendas and notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qnZ2LpF_rXGfnYYPNTldQ4WbeEUxwnuQD-xTC6GbZdg)).

Commit message:

Remove status flag from E2E (#487)
* Remove status flag from E2E

This flag made sense when everything was inside the e2e.sh script,
however since we migrated to shipyard which has distinct stages for each
operation, it doesn't make any sense to keep supporting this flag.

docs/contributing.md, after:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Contributing to Submariner](#contributing-to-submariner)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Reaching out](#reaching-out)
    - [slack](#slack)
    - [Google group](#google-group)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Contributing to Submariner

:+1::tada: First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute to Submariner! :tada::+1:

## Overview

Submariner is a tool built to connect overlay networks of different Kubernetes clusters. It aims to be CNI agnostic.

## How to contribute

To contribute to Submariner:

1. Fork this repository
2. Make your changes in the fork
3. Test your changes by running `make ci e2e` which deploys [Submariner in a Kind 3 cluster setup](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/blob/master/scripts/kind-e2e/README.md) and runs E2E tests
4. Submit a pull request (PR) to Submariner master branch
5. (Optionally) Run `make cleanup` to tear down the test clusters once you're finished.

Refer to [this link](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) on how to submit a PR.

A good PR commit message clearly explains the purpose of a PR and the logic implemented.

## Reaching out
You can reach out to Submariner folks on slack and Google Group.

### slack
Join #submariner slack channel at [Rancher-users workspace](https://rancher-users.slack.com/).

### Google group
Join [Submariner's google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/submariner-dev).

### Weekly Meeting
Join [Submariner's weekly meeting](https://bluejeans.com/3472508766) from 11:00-11:30AM ET ([agendas and notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qnZ2LpF_rXGfnYYPNTldQ4WbeEUxwnuQD-xTC6GbZdg)).
